I get an education and exist and help each other
exist. That was really a strong part, Haskell, of
helping each other to exist. Give examples of
that. Where did y'all help? Where did y'all pull
together? We pulled together in the classroom. We
pulled together in having our meals when you had a
special party or something. Boy, everybody dug as
deep as they could to get together and have
something.
Protected each other from upperclassmen.
It was the camaraderie and the assistance that you
had from your fish old lady and from your
classmates all the way through was, you couldn't
do without it. I don't know what I would have done
had not I had those close, close friends that went
through the same thing that I was going through.
Were there some special events that contributed
to this Were there some special Aggie traditions?
Oh, yes. We had our parties out at the clay pits. We
had our parties out at, oh goodness, it was out here
on Highway 6 and 21 intersection. I don't know if it
was VFW, not VFW, but one of those type of buildings
out there. That's where Aggie Corps units could go
have their parties and drink, okay, get
completely away from the campus, and that was
condoned. The clay pits was condoned. Now, your
outfit never went to the river and partied, did it?
The clay pits, of course, is on the river. Oh, all
right. And that, and I couldn't tell you how to get
the clay pits right now. I remember one of my quack
shack visits was as a result of the clay pits. I got
blistered out there and got pretty bad burns and
had to get some medical attention for that. Too
much sunshine blister. Way, way too much
sunshine, you know, all day affair. But this
pulling together did silver taps and muster
and... Things like that. Now, Haskell, of course,
you know, those were very special to you. But
Silver Tap was a rarity, really. You know, I can
only recall maybe three or four Silver Taps my
whole undergraduate career. That was just not
that common of an occurrence. I mean, there were
only, you know, what, 5,000 to 7,000 of us or
something like that. The community was just not
that big. So that was a little bit different than
maybe what it is today. It might also have been a
little bit more hollowed back then, too, because
when they cut lights out, they cut lights out. And
there was no talking. I mean, it was quiet as a mouse
on that campus and was until the next morning. I
recall that we went back to our dorm and went to bed
after super tabs. And nobody fudged, nobody
cheated? No. No, no, it was very solemn. That's
what I heard. Very solemn. What did you and your
buddies, how often did y'all see and what did y'all
think about the president of Texas A&M in that era?
That man who was the new president when you got
here. You know,
very visible. He was visible on campus. His dog was
visible on campus. Now, was his dog treated
equally with Reveille? Oh, I hope to tell you, more
equally. Absolutely. You bet he was. Ranger had
the run of the campus every bit as much as Reveille
did.
You know, I don't have any strong recollections as
an undergraduate student too much of him, other
than he was visible, he was available.
I believe that, I'm trying to think when his home
burned. That's after, that's 68. Was that 68? See,
I was a PhD student at that time. Actually, I was
teaching and working full-time, but I was going to
school part-time to try to finish up a doctorate
degree. But I remember my father-in-law helping
move things out of that house as it was burning. My
father-in-law worked for the ground maintenance
department at the university. Let's see. This is
another note to the typist. Please put this in as an
editorial note. According to Edwin Cooper, Edwin
H. Cooper, who was Mr. Rudder's assistant at that
time, as the fire in the house gradually, over a
period of the morning, got worse, they were moving
things out, and Ed said, as far as he knows, the last
thing that they got out of the house, before they
couldn't go back in at all and get anything, Mr.
Rutter pulled him aside and told him to go in
through the back door into a certain closet and
look up on the second there was a case of Tiger
Teague's favorite whiskey, and to get that and
bring that out, that he didn't want that to be
discovered by anybody else. My father-in-law
says he brought it out. Is that right? Okay. I don't
know. He told me that many times, that one of the
last things that came out of that house was a case of
whiskey. What did you all think about President
Runner? What was your attitude about him? How did
you all feel about him? Haskell, I think my
knowledge and awareness and attitudes of Rudder
were so...
maybe rethought and recolored in later years that
I don't really remember too much of those
undergraduate academic years because I had the
opportunity to, you know, to sit around Rudder a
few times later on in my career. And so I have a
different perspective maybe. Do you agree with me
in looking back in retrospect, he did not make a lot
of speeches. No. He was not colorful. But there was
no doubt that he was in charge. He was in charge, and
he had people that was in charge. I remember the
director of campus security as an undergraduate
student. He was an old Texas Ranger. Oh,
gosh, Haskell. I can't remember that name either.
But he, too, was in charge. Yes, and when he said
that something was going to happen on campus, it
happened that way. And you know where that was
coming from, not only that he was an old ranger, a
Texas ranger, but it was coming from Earl Rudder,
okay? Now, Dean Hannigan was not here. Yes. Was he?
Yes. All right. What did you all think of him? All
the rumors were that Dean Hannigan was a very stern
disciplinarian that tolerated absolutely no
nonsense, and he had a cadre of folks working for
him. I wish I could think of some of those guys'
names that were just as tough as he were. They were,
listen, when you put the Commandant and Dean
Hannigan And those folks that worked for Dean
Hannigan together, they were a bunch of stern
disciplinarians that did not want a lot of
nonsense going on. And they tolerated you going
out and getting into some devilishness every once
in a while. But they were pretty, they were stern
disciplinarians. Every last one of them. I
remember that. Now, in the fall of 1963, you're a
serious student. Very serious. You're married.
Very married. And where were you when you heard the
news just before Thanksgiving?
Kennedy, Haskell, I was sitting in an old
Studebaker, and by this time it was a 59 large
station wagon Studebaker. And I don't remember
all the particulars of it, but I remember getting
out and walking into the A&M Press, now the A&M
Printing Center, where my wife was working. And I
can't put all of those events together, but I
remember it was just a lot of goodness what has
happened. So you heard it on the car radio? Yes, I
did. In my case, I had just finished class in Nagel
Hall when in Garland Bayless's office, we were
going to go to lunch at 1 o'clock to beat the crowd to
go to the MSC. And I said, come on, let's go, let's
go. He said, I'm listening to the radio. And I said,
you can listen to it. He said, listen. And at that
moment, I leaned over and Walter Cronkite said,
I've just been handed a bulletin. President
Kennedy is dead. I want to believe that I had
probably gone to the printing center or the A&M
Press to pick up Etta to have lunch together, or
maybe even to have sack lunch there in the
building. I do not remember the real particular, I
don't even remember us leaving there and going to
lunch as a matter of fact, but that's where I was
when that happened.
Were you aware during that time, and if you were,
are you able to comment about any secret
fraternities at Texas A&M? Not aware of any? No, I
was not. But no, I knew of none. All right, back to, I
can't think of any other events during your
undergraduate days that would have caused you to
remember where you were when you heard the news
that. No. Because I can't think of any. Like
December 7, 41, everybody remembers that one.
Yeah, I was three months old. Let's see. I do
remember my undergraduate years. I remember A&M
Integrated. Oh, yes, describe. First of all.
Describe. First of all. It happened. What was the
attitude of the typical students that you knew
What were the attitude about the students about a
non-compulsory core? You know, that probably
was, it was just kind of, I don't think there was any
big hassle one way or the other for anybody. I don't
see that as having been just a real blazing issue.
Co-education?
Probably a little bit more of an issue, talked
about a little bit more often.
Maybe don't need them, why, that sort of thing. If
there had been a referendum, what do you think the
vote would have been? I may be wrong, but I think it
may have been let them in, because I can remember,
and so many of us can remember, writing your post
office box up at TWU or at Sam Houston and picking
the girls up off the buses when they came into town.
See, I believe if there had been a secret ballot...
I think they would have voted the way I would have
voted, let the women in. Yeah, I believe that. What
about integration? It just happened. There was no
fanfare to it. Was there any opposition at all? No.
I don't even remember anyone even saying that,
hey, it's going to happen or anything else. It just
happened. And best I recall, I think it was when I
was a senior. I think it was fall of 63 when it
happened, and it just happened. No, there was no
opposition and very, very smooth. And as far as I
know, Sterling Evans was one of the key men in
making it happen when it did.
Let's see, you didn't do any Aggie hitchhiking, so
you don't have any hitchhiking. No, I didn't have
to. My brother did. He tells a lot of stories about
it, but I did not. Did you ever get any Tessie dates?
Oh, goodness, yes. Now, how did you meet some
Tessies in the first place? How did you know who to
write to? just wrote a post office box number. And
if it came back, there was no such post office box
number, you'd come up with a post office box
number, you know? Did you have some fun occasions?
Yeah, there were good times. Now, haven't I heard
about beast buckets and moose pots? Moose pots,
yes. Those were true, those were true. And that was
for the... the guy that had the ugliest date. And
they probably had something on the other end as
well. Oh, yeah, that's true. Yeah, those
happened. They sure did. When the girls came down
here, how were they treated? Oh, with a great deal
of respect. I mean, it was just like, hey, I mean,
you know, it's not like they came down here for wild
parties. They came down here to enjoy a weekend,
football games and what have you. No, it was very
sane, very docile, very nice. Now, you were not a
dancer, so you didn't take any of them to dances.
Oh, I tried to. Oh, did you? No, I was not that
successful at it. But, yeah, we went, sure, yeah.
And we made all the military balls and that sort of
thing and, you know, stumbled around and that sort
of thing. Student indulgences then, what were
Aggies drinking, those who did drink? Haskell,
you know, you could go out to the river. Whiskey
Bridge. Whiskey Bridge and buy, oh, the, They'd
buy gin, slow gin, you know, wine. I can remember
the old saying, you know, what's the word?
Thunderbird. What's the price? 30 thrice. What's
the reason? It's drinking season. What's the
reaction? Satisfaction. They'd make us as
freshmen go through that over and over and over.
And as far as I can recall, there was only a couple
places where you could find beer. There was just
not that many places. Uncle Ed's was still going?
Yes, Uncle Ed's was still going. Goodness, that
seems like that's about it. Most of the drink in
high school was restricted really to the core
outfit parties that would happen once or twice a
year. And that was about it. And there was an
arrangement to get everybody back to the campus.
Oh, yes. Yes, there was, as a matter of fact. In
fact, do you remember, in all of your
undergraduate days, do you remember a death, DWI
death? No. No, I do not. I do remember seeing drunk
Aggies, especially after court parties, but I
don't remember ever hearing or knowing of a drunk
DIW deaf, no. And occasionally an Aggie would hide
a fifth or a pint somewhere in the wall? Yes, and
occasionally get caught. There wasn't a
bootlegger, and I've never heard of a bootlegger
in Brazos County. Did you ever hear of any
bootlegger?
I would know of guys that would go somewhere and
come back into town with contraband liquor. And
Pedlet. Oh, and Pedlet. Yeah, sure. But there was
no dealer, no bootlegger dealer in Browns County
that I've ever heard of. No. No, nothing I know of,
no. Was the chicken ranch still in existence? Yes,
the chicken ranch was in existence. And was there a
kind of an Aggie tradition supposedly to?
Haskell, I think maybe there was some tradition
there, but I don't think it was near as great as what
everybody made it out to be. As the story has
become? As the story has become. I can remember
once or twice in the Corps, the whistle jock. And
I'm pretty sure some upperclassmen put the
whistle jock up to this, but blowing the whistle
and hollering, fall out for the chicken wrench.
And, you know, everybody look out in the hall,
there'll be nobody, you know, really going
anywhere, but I can remember that happening. And
But I don't remember, I don't know of anybody that
really, that was a place that Aggies went to. Oh, it
was talked about, and I'm sure it did. I'm sure
there were frequent visits from A&M students to
the chicken ranch. There was all sorts of stories
back there. You go there because that's where all
the University of Texas girls were. So I don't know
how much validity to any of those old stories were.
But yeah, it was still there. In terms of smoking,
what were Aggies smoking? Oh, cigarettes, man.
They were smoking Kimmel's, Sir Walter
Raleigh's.
Some guys were smoking Kuhl's. They were menthol,
menthol Kuhl's. That was pretty much it. Some of us
would, I even smoked a pipe a little bit during
those days, you know. Not much cigar. No. Chewing
tobacco? No. Didn't see much chewing. I don't
recall anyone chewing tobacco, as a matter of
fact. Now, I chewed tobacco when I worked for the
highway department during summers and what have
you. I'd get out on a dirt job, and I'd chew tobacco.
I claimed to keep dirt out of my mouth. But I don't
remember chewing being a frequent thing on
campus. Smoking was pretty heavy. They gave
cigarettes away on campus. We got the little four
cigarette packs. Particulate registration.
Yeah, you got it. Uh-huh. Did you even know the
terminology of drugs? I'm glad you asked that. Let
me tell you a story. When I was in high school,
even though some people call that some of the
redneck part of Texas and the architects area,
there was no drinking problem or a drug problem. In
fact, I can remember four of my high school
classmates drinking beer, getting caught, and
the school principal calling a school assembly in
the auditorium on a Monday after these guys were
caught on a Saturday drinking beer and making all
four of them stand on the stage and apologize to the
student body. And that kind of put a quietus on that
kind of nonsense. I honestly do not remember even
hearing the word marijuana when I was in high
school. And no, there was no drug culture that I am
aware of, not even in the slightest, when I was at
A&M. It was a simpler era. It definitely was. All
right, you say that racial integration went very
smoothly. Were you on campus when some of the first
women enrolled? Yeah, see, I was, well, let me see
now. See, there was a time period in there where
they were doing some summer classes. Oh, they
always could do that. And they were doing, let me
think here a minute. Maybe there was some
preliminary letting the ladies enroll or make
application for vet school or something. I can't
remember what that was. But of course I was
teaching when we opened the doors. I can remember
my first engineering class I taught where I had a
few ladies in the classroom. Yeah, I can remember
that well. What was it like for them? Oh, I'm sure it
was strained in a lot of ways for them that they were
looking around, but I think most of them knew,
especially in engineering, hey, we're going into
a male-dominated world anyway, so this is just the
way it's going to be, and maybe even until today
engineering is still a little bit
male-dominated, but... I think that was a very
smooth assimilation as well. I don't recall it
being any particular harassment. I'm aware of
some of the minor, I call them minor, some of the
things that happened, you know, with the girls in
the corps and band and some of those things. But as
far as having girls in my classroom and what have
you, well, that was just as smooth as it could be. I
remember later on when I was in the dean's office,
having to instruct a few faculty members to tone
their classes down a little bit. Had to threaten to
remove one from the classroom because of his
obnoxious vocabulary that he just couldn't seem
to clean up for his classes. He should have been
cleaned up for the males, as far as that goes, but it
was particularly obnoxious to the ladies, and I
can remember that. The early, the first women,
female students, academically, were they, in
general, quite capable? Haskell, you know, the
ones that I had in the civil engineering classes, I
don't remember any of them being poor students. I
don't remember a single one being a poor student. I
think that's been true. And when I went to the
dean's office, you know, I hit the dean's office
part-time in 74. and then replaced Cliff
Ransdell, if you will, in 75. I say replaced. Cliff
Ransdell was ready to retire. In fact, Cliff
stayed with me for a year on a part-time basis to
make sure I didn't fumble and fall too many times.
And I remember those days, our girls were just
absolutely exceptional. And we had more of them in
the harder curriculum. We had them in chemical
engineering. some of those areas, and they were
just absolutely tearing the curves up. They were
just outstanding students and taking a lot of
leadership positions in the Student Engineers
Council and those type of organizations. So, no,
this was a very smooth assimilation into the
College of Engineering, I can assure you, and we
were delighted to have them, absolutely
delighted to have them. If you'll remember, the 70
to 80 was that real dynamic growth period, and
especially if you take the 74, 75 through 80
period, that's when A&M just blew. And when I
walked out the doors my last day as a dean in the
College of Engineering, there was 9,070
engineering students, and it was a handful. I
mean, it was, and most of those were
undergraduate, you know. That was what year? That
was 1980. So that engineering within 15, 16 years
had 2,000 more students than the institution had
had. You got it. Absolutely. It sure did. Yes.
Yeah, that was such a dynamic period, but it was
fun. That was the most fun part of perhaps my career
was those years over there. Back to undergraduate
days, when you bought that ring, do you remember
how much it cost? Yes, $28. Where did you get that
money? My brother. My brother came through with
that $28. And, you know, the story is the
Association of Farmer Students was paying the
other half of the value of the ring. How did you feel
when you put it on? There is no way to describe it.
You know, you just couldn't hold your hand out far
enough. You couldn't show it off enough. It was
just absolutely an unbelievable event in life.
Why are Aggies so, why is an Aggie ring so important
to Aggies?
It's a symbol. I mean, it's a designation that you
belong, man, that you're part of it. And there's no
question that you're a part of it, that you didn't
quit too early, that you didn't make it. You really
are a part of what A&M is all about, and that tells
everyone that sees you, man, I'm a part of
something great. And I still believe that. Oh, I do
too. Until today, I believe that. And as an outside
observer, I think one of the keys is that it hasn't
changed in design, appearance, and so forth. but
just a tiny, tiny bit. That's right. So that if you
ever recognized it one place, it will look the
same. That's right. And you've heard the stories
of being stopped everywhere imaginable.
Haskell, that ring has been seen all over these
states for sure. What are your favorite ring
stories, where somebody saw it or... Oh, my wife
and I and the three kids made a summer trip to D.C. I
had a summer presentation to the Highway Research
Board of the National Academy of Sciences up there
one summer. And we were standing on a corner in
the... Oh, goodness.
The... What do you call the area in between the
Capitol and the... Oh, my. My brain gone to sleep.
Boy, mine went to sleep on me, not the quadrangle,
but in the mall area. And there was a
high-ranking military officer. I don't remember
now exactly whether he was Army or Air Force. It
really doesn't matter, but he saw my Aggie ring,
introduced himself, and he was an Aggie and said,
what are you doing here? I said, well, I've got a
presentation later today. I told him where it was,
and I said, my wife and the three kids are going to do
a little tour around Michigan the mall area here
and maybe catch some of the Smithsonian exhibits
and what have you. And it was almost lunchtime and
he said, well, what are the plans for lunch today?
And I said, well, I'm going to be leaving here in
just a few minutes and I've told them to find
something. He said, well, they just found it. And
he carried my wife and the three kids to lunch. So I
remember that one very well. And other occasions,
airports. Always. You know, I've traveled most of
my professional career, hundreds of air flights,
and very seldom would you ever go into an airport,
even strange airports, that someone would say,
hey, what class are you? Or come over and introduce
themselves. You've never lost it. I've never lost
mine. My brother lost his three years ago, class
51. It was completely slick. He lost his, and he's
wearing one now that looks like a brand new one. He
was almost self-conscious about it, but no, I
never lost mine. My daughter lost her first one in
Lake Somerville, and I lost it three or four years
after graduation. That's it. And you didn't buy
senior boots? Oh, yes. Oh, you did? Yes, I did.
Where'd you get them? I had two pair of senior
boots. I had a pair of senior boots that my sister
gave me from a friend that she knew in Houston, and
they were my everyday boots, okay, that first
semester of my senior year when I was in the Corps.
And then I bought a pair of hand-me-down boots from
an upperclassman that fit, and those were my drill
and ceremonies senior boots. So I had two pair, and
I sold the drill and ceremony, the real nice pair,
and I kept the old pair. I still have those. And was
your first final review wearing boots a special
time? Yes, it was very special. I can recall it like
it was yesterday. Had special people in town for
the occasion, and yeah, it was very special. And
commencement, when you graduated? My mom came
down, and all
of my brothers and sisters came down, all five of
them. My wife and her family was there, and I think
even her sister and her husband, and he was an
Aggie, I think they were there. Very special
occasion, yes, very special. Every name called?
Oh, yes, every name called. I don't remember it
being Roger Feldman, but every name was called,
and that was a very special feeling to walk across
that stage. As you look back on those
undergraduate days, how well did it prepare you
for A&M's undergraduate program prepare you for
your future? Haskell, there was no question when I
graduated I thought I could slay the world. I
really believed that, that I was as well prepared
as anyone anywhere to do whatever I well pleased to
do, whether it was in engineering or do something
else. And I had committed to myself during that
senior year that I was going into academics. And my
department head, who was Saul Wright, he was civil
engineering department head when I left, Told me I
could go to graduate school, but I need to go out and
have an adjustment for a couple of years.